PD-1586 / 25.04 / Pd 1586 25 04 primary features upgrade notes writeup (#3354)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/GettingStarted/SCALEReleaseNotes.md

{{< hint type="tip" title="25.04 Nightly Development Documentation" >}}
This page tracks the latest development roadmap and notes for the future TrueNAS major version 25.04 (Fangtooth).

See the stable [24.10 (Electric Eel)](https://www.truenas.com/docs/scale/24.10/gettingstarted/scalereleasenotes/) release notes for information relating to that version.
{{< /hint >}}

## Features

{{< include file="/static/includes/25.04FeatureList.md" >}}

## Obtaining a Release

{{< include file="/static/includes/EarlyReleaseWarning.md" >}}

> For adventurous users that want to experiment with the latest feature development, 25.04 (Fangtooth) nightly images are available from the [the TrueNAS downloads server](https://download.truenas.com/truenas-scale-fangtooth-nightly/).

Reviewer: Do we want to recommend this before it is a Beta1 release?

{{< truetable >}}
| Feature Flag | GUID | Notes |
|--------------|------|-------|
| fast deduplication | [com.klarasystems:fast_dedup](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/man/master/7/zpool-features.7.html#fast_dedup) | This flag is present in 24.10, but is now generally available through the TrueNAS UI. |
{{< /truetable >}}

For more details on feature flags, see [OpenZFS Feature Flags](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Basic%20Concepts/Feature%20Flags.html) and [OpenZFS zpool-feature.7](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/man/7/zpool-features.7.html).

## 25.04 Nightly Development Changelog

> * The TrueNAS REST API is deprecated in TrueNAS 25.04 and replaced by the TrueNAS API Client. Full removal of the REST API is planned for a future release.

Reviewer: not sure client should be capitalized here.
```suggestion
* The TrueNAS REST API is deprecated in TrueNAS 25.04 and replaced by the TrueNAS API client. Full removal of the REST API is planned for a future release.
```

* The default libvirt account UID & GID is changed to a less common value to avoid clashing with user created UID/GIDs. See Upgrade Notes above for more information ([NAS-131695](https://ixsystems.atlassian.net/browse/NAS-131695)).
* Improved API key mechanism with support for user-linked API keys ([NAS-131396](https://ixsystems.atlassian.net/browse/NAS-131396)).

>   Existing API keys created via the TrueNAS API (not UI or TrueCommand) that specify an allowlist with whitelisted API methods are revoked on upgrade because there is no clean way to migrate to new system.

Reviewer: these should be two words as they are not referring the UI or they would be in bold, and if it is a command should be in code emphasis.
```suggestion
  Existing API keys created via the TrueNAS API (not UI or TrueCommand) that specify an allow list with white-listed API methods are revoked upon upgrade because there is no clean way to migrate to the new system.
```
